[51] Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of genetic variants associated with human complex traits. However, the genes or functional DNA elements through which these variants exert their effects on the traits are often unknown. We propose a method (called SMR) that integrates summary-level data from GWAS with data from expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) studies to identify genes whose expression levels are associated with a complex trait because of pleiotropy. We apply the method to five human complex traits using GWAS data on up to 339,224 individuals and eQTL data on 5,311 individuals, and we prioritize 126 genes (for example, TRAF1 and ANKRD55 for rheumatoid arthritis and SNX19 and NMRAL1 for schizophrenia), of which 25 genes are new candidates; 77 genes are not the nearest annotated gene to the top associated GWAS SNP. These genes provide important leads to design future functional studies to understand the mechanism whereby DNA variation leads to complex trait variation.

[69] Figure 2: Manhattan plots of SMR tests for association between gene expression and complex traits.

[311] Supplementary Figure 1 QQ plots of P values from the SMR tests under a range of simulation scenarios.

[314] ( a ) Top, P values from the GWAS for schizophrenia 1 (brown dots) and P values from SMR tests (diamonds) using Westra eQTL data 2 . Bottom, P values from the Westra and Ramasamy eQTL studies 3 for NMRALI1 . Shown in a are all the SNPs available in the GWAS and eQTL data. ( b , c ) Effect sizes of the SNPs (used for the HEIDI test) from the GWAS against those from the Westra and Ramasamy eQTL studies. The orange dashed lines represent the estimate of b xy at the top cis -eQTL (rather than the regression line). Error bars are the standard errors of SNP effects.

[315] Supplementary Figure 3 Genes with multiple tagging probes that pass the SMR and HEIDI tests—the ANKRD55 locus for rheumatoid arthritis.

[316] ( a ) Top, dots in brown represent P values for SNPs from the latest GWAS for rheumatoid arthritis 4 , diamonds represent P values for probes from the SMR analysis and triangles represent probes without a cis -eQTL at P eQTL < 5.0 × 10 −8 . Probes that passed the HEIDI test ( P HEIDI ≥ 0.05) are highlighted in red. Bottom, P values from eQTL studies for the two probes that both tag ANKRD55 . Shown in a are all SNPs available in the GWAS and eQTL summary data (rather than those in common). ( b , c ) Effect sizes of the SNPs (used in the HEIDI test) from the GWAS against those from the eQTL study for the two probes. The orange dashed lines represent the estimate of b xy at the top cis -eQTL. Error bars are the standard errors of SNP effects. ( d ) Plot of expression levels of the two probes against each other in the data (328 unrelated individuals) from the Brisbane Systems Genetics Study 5 .

[317] Supplementary Figure 4 Power of detecting heterogeneity in b xy as a function of LD between two causal variants in simulations.

[320] The results are from an SMR analysis of real GWAS data for five complex traits ( Supplementary Table 6 ) and simulated eQTL data. The eQTL data were simulated on the basis of real genotypes, mimicking the Westra study but with the causal variants of cis -eQTLs randomly placed across the genome (see the Supplementary Note for details). There were a number of simulated probes that passed the SMR and HEIDI tests ( Supplementary Table 14 ). For these probes, the overlaps between the GWAS and eQTL signals are due to the strong LD between the GWAS causal variants and the causal eQTLs. Unfortunately, the GWAS causal variants are unknown. Shown are LD r 2 values for the top associated GWAS SNPs and the simulated causal eQTLs in these probe regions, which are likely to be underestimations of LD between the causal variants. For regions where there were multiple independent GWAS signals as indicated by a GCTA-COJO analysis 6 , we selected the top GWAS SNP, conditioning the secondary GWAS signal (a secondary GWAS signal was defined as the top associated GWAS SNP in the region when conditioning on the GWAS SNP used in the SMR test).

[324] ( a ) Effect sizes of the SNPs (used in the HEIDI test) from the latest GWAS for height 7 against those from the Westra eQTL study 2 at the SPI1 locus. We detected a secondary signal in the GWAS data. ( b ) Effect sizes conditioning on the secondary signal. The orange dashed lines represent the estimate of b xy at the top cis -eQTL. Error bars are the standard errors of SNP effects.